
India is one of the ancient countries comparing to any other country in the world, which is very rich in its own culture.

India has got the big phenomena of unity in multifarious diversities and multifarious diversity has got a unity. This means that though the external appearance of the people varies on different cultural forms, the 'Indian' spirit remains the same through out the country.

The first and foremost thing to talk about culture is the civilization observed from the Old Stone Age to the present age. When we say somebody is civilized, that civilization either based on his or her literature or on his or her type of life. Individual regionalistic culture is depicted by the literature. The type of literatures first comes in the Tamil literature, then, Telegu and Malayalam followed by Kannada. These are the foremost languages in which they have existed without the aid of any other language.

The type of dress adorn by the people of different parts of this country are as much colourful and varied to compromise with the climatic and the geographical conditions. The down South, where the temperature remains almost hot, the pattern of dressing is mainly divided into two parts, the ceremonial dresses and working dresses. In the ceremonial dresses, again the culture of the country based on weaving talents. From different weaving styles, one can promptly identify the place of origin of a particular dress in the country. The weaving at Kancheepuram is different from that of Banaras or Surat. In that way, it is worth knowing about the different weaving pattern of Kancheepuram, Banaras, Kashmir, Bengal, and Surat for the executive type of weaving in Zaris, Silks, pure cotton, wool and other materials.
To critically observe or get more knowledge about the culture, culture in persons, culture in individual behavior, culture in food habits and culture in day today work in India, one has to go to the remote parts of the country, ie the villages where the ancient culture is being observed as the entity of the varieties. In the semi-urban or urban states, it is impossible to find the true Indian culture of this country. So also, the jewels and ornaments adore by the people of this country varies from region to region. As much as the desire to adore them by jewels, the southern people have got a quenched thirst to adore with jewels to their gods and goddesses as deities than to themselves. The culture of this country has got strong belief in bestowing the most precious jewels in metals or that of a Navaratna to be adored on the deities. Such type of innumerable number of deities are even now available in remote villages where even the outskirt of the villages themselves do not know.
There is a born instinct in differentiating the culture of regionalism and is only possible in the spirit of Indian culture alone which is not available in any other culture. However, the Keralite music can be perfectioned by a Tamil origin. The Tamil origins Bharatnatyam can be performed with more grace in Andhra Pradesh.Thyagabrahmams Keerthanas could be sung with more delicate taste by all these Southern Regional but the dressing culture, the food culture and any other culture remains individualistic and they are akin to that particular state to which they belong.

The culture of Gurukulam. Though it has taken a pedigreeal concept all from guru to guru, it is restricted itself by imparting knowledge to high spiritual, vedic and ethical only. Some pedigree could not be established in day to day life. Therefore the Gummi, Kolattam and the street drama (Therukoothu), Ottamthullal of Kerala and the native dancing trends of Andhra Pradesh, the big drum festivals of Karnataka and the Veerasaiva sword twisting is restricted to the individual states only which has not spread to the other states.
